Welcome back everyone to part two of the social clone project.
Now that we have the very basic set up let's dive in into actually creating account functionality for
our Web site.
And as we're doing that we're also going to begin to set up some basic template HCM help files things
like our base h him file and the index page to him file for the home page.
All right let's hop over to the Adam text editor and get started.
OK here I am at Adam and we're going to start off doing is creating some basic template files that we
know we're always going to be using such as a base template and a home page template.
That means I will come over to templates and I'm going to create a new file under my templates directory
that's the top level.
I will create a base HVM l file that's where our actual base templates going to need to go.
And then I also create a new file here called index thought Tim ELB for our actual home page.
And I want to going to do here is type H T M L.
And I will just set up some very basic home page.
So let's just say something like here in our Cotterell body.
Let's create a heading 1 and say something like.
Welcome to star social exclamation point and then right at the top of this what I can do is I know I'm
already going to be extending from base C.M..
So let's do that as well so I'll say extends from base.
Tim L and then I also put the.
Actually since I nomic something from basically T.M. I'll put everything inside a block.
So let's see let's get rid of all this since I know I'm going to have a content block.
Say a block and then content and I'll put.
Welcome to our social inside of this content block.
Now that I have that that actually means I need to go back to my HMO file or based on each HTML file
and set up a few things there.
Since I'm going to be extending from baseplate him l i need to make sure that this is actually kind
of a normal looking age HTML file.
So I'll keep that right now.
And then inside the body when I'm going to do is set up that actual block.
So will say block and then it's called content.
So I will save that for now there's still a lot more we can add in here that we are going to add in
such as a navigation bar or links to see SS etc..
But for right now keep it simple and we'll just keep it as it is right now.
So that's all I want to do for based on age T.M. and in order to actually connect the base each team
the index age female to my actual web application or web site.
What I need to do is come over to your Olsdorf pie under simple social and under this I'm also going
to create a new file called these up high and basically create a really simple view for our home page
and then link it to the URLs for the entire page.
So I'm going to say from Jingo the views that generic import and I will import the template view that
way I can just return back that template view.
So class home page and this is going to inherit from template view and then I'm just going to say whoops
template name my template name is equal to index h T.M. they can say I have a lot of autocomplete help
there because I'm using a jingle plugin packed for Adam.
So that save that I have home page template name index.
Now that's looking good.
And now I need to come over to your Olsdorf pie and make sure that actually link is here so let's scroll
down and then I will say not just you URL but also include from jingo CNF configuration that you URLs
and then I'm also seeing from DOT import views.
So it just says go to the current directory which is simple social and then grab views from there.
Well let's add it in to your old patterns and we'll see your own and then using regular expressions
I will say our hat we're care dollar sign basically the home page so when someone just goes to your
local host or whatever it happens to be the very first home page is going to be view.
What's the use the home page.
And remember for class based views we need to say as you call that method off of it.
And then I will assign this name
OK save that there's still a lot more to add to this but let's just make sure that we actually made
that connection correctly and if not we can debug.
I will run the server and let's hop over slide refresh this.
Now it says Welcome to our social great so we link up our home page.
And that should have been pretty straightforward given everything that we've already learned so far
on this course.
Now it's actually jump over and start with our AD accounts application.
So I will come over to accounts.
Let me close these.
Don't get confused on anything.
So now everything I'm doing is over on accounts and under models that pie.
I want to create a simple model for accounts and I'm actually going to use jingoes built in models for
this.
OK now inside this model is that PI file.
What I'm going to do is import from Django contrib in poor 88 for authorization.
So a lot of these authorization tools for accounts they're actually built into Django that way we don't
have to mess around creating our own models for users cetera.
So I was going to say a class user.
And I'm going to inherit from our models the user and then I'm also going to inherit from models the
permissions mixin and then inside of this class I'm just going to have a very simple string representation
of the object and want is going to do here is say if you want the string representation of a user do
the following.
I will say at such as the at symbol.
Kind of like a Twitter handle and then using the format expression and Voisey's self-taught username.
Now you may be wondering well where is username where is that defined.
So that's actually an attribute that comes built in with that user.
So all the models that user has the main attributes and you took up.
You can check out the documentation for more information on this but basically it comes of what you
would expect it to come with.
It has first name last name email username and then maybe one more field where we're going to do is
use this to automatically set up a form so that when someone is signing up for our actual Web site to
become a user on it jingles essentially going to take care of all that on the back and forth.
So let me save that and then let's continue on by creating a view for this.
So I don't want to create a view and we're going to need to connect this to a forum later on.
But I will do the following.
I will say from
jingo Jingo the core your L resolvers import reverse lazy so reverse lazy remember we're using that
in case someone is logged in or logged out where they should actually go and then I will say from DOT
import forms.
So what I'm going to do is now that I have forms here I will create a format that PI file that will
connect my forms for logging in or signing up to this actual views.
So before I continue here I will say just class.
Sign up and this is going to be a create view which means I need to import that will say from jingled
up views.
Generic import a create view.
So this is for creating a new user and then here I'm just going to say pass because I want to do all
my forms file first.
So inside of accounts I'll send you file and then I'll create a Forms up high file and it's kind of
create the forms for signing up.
So I was actually again going to be relatively straightforward given that Django kind of doing a lot
of the heavy lifting for us which is kind of the whole point of Django that it does all this stuff right
out of the box becomes batteries included.
So a couple of things I need to import here from Jim with that country of off import.
Get user model so that returns a user model that's currently active in this project.
And then I say from Zingo that contrib THYR forms imports and then it going to import a user creation
for.
So as you can see there's already user creation forum built into authorization package.
So a lot of the stuff we're going to be using just comes from this particular package which also has
excellent documentation.
So again basically a documentation page shows you how to create user accounts admin accounts etc. as
a whole basically huge page that goes through an entire process of doing this.
So if you ever get confused on this or want some more reference check out the documentation.
It's actually really good for this.
So it was a jingle that contrib from forms import a user creation form.
This is essentially going to be kind of a sign a page.
So when someone wants to create a user and they all say user create form and I will inherit from the
user creation form.
Well you want to be careful of is make sure that your class that's inheriting from this user creation
form is not the exact same name as user creation forms.
So here you say user create form and then user creation form we can also say this as user sign up for
him etc. but you don't want these to share the exact same name.
Otherwise sometimes Python will have an error with a self-reference call like that.
So we'll see.
In here and I'm going to create my metaclasses tree actually kind of seen before remember I can call
the field attribute inside of this and then put a tuple of fields.
Now these fields are actually already available for me from contrib off.
So the fields that I'm going to have a user fill out is the username their email and then password.
I put in as a string password one and then also has a string password too.
So that comes with the authorization user model and it's basically just to confirm your password.
So put in your password once and then confirm it with password too.
So those are the fields I want someone to put in as my Morefield if you wanted to but right now we'll
just keep those basic default fields from authorization.
And then this is kind of the most important part.
We say model is equal to get user model which allows us to use right here to get the current model of
who's ever accessing that Web site and then we will say if it's and we're going to initialize this with
self args keyword arguments and this is essentially we're I wouldn't expect you to memorize this but
instead reference the documentation for this particular thing.
So what I'm going to do here say create super and then initialize that with args and keyword arguments
and then here we'll just say self-taught fields user name that label is equal to the display name.
So what is this actually doing.
Well basically what's going to happen is when the user comes in and they're ready to sign up we're going
to call user creation form from authorization forms and then we set up the middle class basically saying
OK these are the fields that they want a user to be able to access when they're signing up.
So whenever we're connected to our models or database this is what they're going to have access to the
username to email and then set up and confirm their password.
Now if I actually want labels on that form in that template but I can do here under the in it.
After calling this superclass what you end up doing is saying self-taught fields almost like a dictionary
user name label and then you can set up the label for that actual field.
So that's the same thing as setting up a label on a form HVM page.
Except here we're going to set it from the actual forms that PI view.
And then finally I want self-taught fields email
label.
I will say this just call the email address so it's a quick note you don't really need to do this.
This is kind of just for your own customization labels.
In case you had a specific thing that you wanted to show.
So for example say you're trying to make a Twitter clone.
Maybe instead of user name you could say something here such as display name say something like Twitter
account handle or etc..
If you are doing something that's kind of specific or customize your Web site where you don't want no
user name just to say user instead wanted to say my Twitter account handle on the actual form that way
when a user's using your web site they have a better understanding what username will actually stand
for.
This is where you would actually do that.
You would say self-taught fields access whatever field you want it to that's available to you in forms.
Usually it's just your first and last name.
Use name email and password and then you call that label attribute off of that and then set it as your
display name.
So that's actually all we need to do here informs up-I.
And now that we have that ready to go we can come back to have used a pie and set that up.
So I'll come back to that pie over here and now instead of St pass let's start filling in.
So this is going to take a form class class object attribute and it's just going to be forms the user
create form and note here I'm not instantiating the class so I won't put parentheses.
I'll just leave it like that.
So my form class is actually equal to this form class just sitting this attribute equal to that class
that we just created and then I'm going to have a success u r l be equal to reverse.
Lazy.
And then I'll say loggin.
So what does that actually mean.
It means once someone has signed up for actual web site then in on a successful Sign-Up I will reverse
them back to the logon page.
But remember it's reverse lazy because they don't want this to actually execute until they've hit submit.
All that Sign-Up button otherwise is just a normal reverse.
It would kind of automatically reverse without letting him sign up.
That's why I have reversely there and then I need to finally say the template name for this.
So a template name is going to be called two accounts slash Sign-Up h T.M..
So let me save that.
And now let's actually work with templates on our accounts.
So underneath the accounts folder I'm going to create a new folder called templates to make sure that's
there.
So templates and then under that remember we kind of follow this app templates app directory scheme
so under templates I will create something called the Count's directory there.
And then finally under here is where I'm going to have to template files a log in each T.M. template
and a sign up bloodies html template.
So I'll say new file log in that is T.M. and then will say and you file Sign-Up.
H tim L. OK.
So that's it for now in the next section or next lecture I should say.
We're going to do is kind of keep continuing filling out these HMO files and then connecting the views
to your else.
But let's quickly go over what we just did.
So over here in accounts we ended up doing was from models not pie inside the accounts.
We basically created this really simple user model.
Technically it's not that simple.
Our job is simple.
The heavy lifting is being done by Django by just importing these two things models that user models
that permission Nixon and then we're also doing is coming over to the use of Pi and creating a very
simple Sign-Up create view that's essentially creating a new user.
And then we need to connect that to a user create form.
So we create a new file called forms up-I and we use this user create form and then you also notice
that we kind of set up our own custom labels for the user name and email.
These are technically not mandatory You don't have to set up your own custom labels but in case you
ever needed to do that.
That's how you can do it.
All right.
Coming up next we're going to kind of mess around for your old pie make the connections and also set
up these log in and sign up that age e-mail templates.
OK thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture where we continue working with accounts.